Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
Here's a glimpse of what's ahead.
What do you do when a situation seems hopeless?
We'll meet three young people from Congo Kinshasa
whose Christian hopes stabilize them when disaster struck.
Does the stress of this world sometimes follow you home
and weigh on your marriage?
We'll examine a Bible principle that can strengthen your relationship
and preserve your home as a haven of peace.
If we have doubts from time to time,
they need not weaken us.
Our music video this month will inspire us to feed our faith.
This is the March 2024 edition of JW Broadcasting.
Our theme this month is Feed Your Hope.
Hope is essential for peace, happiness, courage,
and life.
But what is hope?
When the Bible uses the word hope,
it's referring not only to the desire for something good,
but also to the basis for believing it will happen.
So hope is more than just wishful thinking or even expectation.
It's based on fact.
There's evidence to back it up.
Thus true hope can come only from the one who has the power
to fulfill whatever he promises.
Jehovah God.
Jehovah provides hope in abundance.
Notice what Romans 1513 says about Jehovah.
May the God who gives hope fill you with all joy and peace
by your trusting in him so that you may abound in hope
with power of Holy Spirit.
Yes, Jehovah gives us what we need to abound in hope.
And yet the Apostle Paul also wrote as recorded at Colossians 123
that a Christian could be shifted away from the hope.
So we must never take our hope for granted.
We need to feed it.
What do you need to feed?
Hope.
Two things are mentioned at Romans 154.
For all the things that were written beforehand were written
for our instruction so that through our endurance
and through the comfort from the scriptures we might have hope.
So did you notice what feeds hope?
Our endurance and the comfort from the scriptures.
What we take into our minds is vital to keeping our hope strong.
For example, recall what happened shortly after Jesus was executed
as recorded in Luke chapter 24.
This is part of the conversation between an unidentified traveler
and the disheartened disciples.
The disciples were beside themselves with grief over Jesus' death.
The traveler, though, was in fact the resurrected Jesus.
The disciples didn't yet realize this.
So they said, as recorded at Luke 2421,
but we were hoping that this man was the one
who was going to deliver Israel.
Yes, and besides all these things,
this is the third day since these things occurred.
The scripture shows just how susceptible we can be to discouragement
when things don't turn out as we expect.
But notice what Jesus did to help them.
Verses 25 through 27.
So he said to them,
oh, senseless ones,
and slow of heart to believe all the things the prophets have spoken.
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things
and to enter into his glory?
And starting with Moses,
and all the prophets,
he interpreted to them things pertaining to himself
in all the scriptures.
So how did Jesus feed their hope?
First, by showing them that they were right
to hope in the fulfillment of the scriptures,
and then by teaching them how those scriptures had been fulfilled.
Can we do the same today?
Yes.
When we're facing challenges that threaten our hope,
we should ask Jehovah for guidance
by means of his Holy Spirit,
and then with the help of the publications
of the faithful and discrete slave,
we should meditate carefully
on how the scriptures are being fulfilled.
It can be difficult to find time for this in these hectic days.
There are so many claims on our attention,
so many things to know and do.
But what you take into your mind
is vital to keeping your hope alive.
The humanitarian crises facing mankind today
make any one of us feel anxious.
Experts in fields of technology, finance,
and government have found it necessary to coin new words
to convey the gravity of the situation.
In 2023, the word polycrisis began to soar in usage.
A polycrisis refers to many global threats
happening at the same time.
The overlapping of health emergencies,
climate change, wars, forced migrations, natural disasters,
and economic collapse all happening simultaneously.
A polycrisis could throw a person off balance spiritually.
But as students of Jesus sign of the last days,
we have fully anticipated
that there would be many serious problems
facing mankind at the same time
and on an unprecedented scale.
But isn't it interesting that the world itself
has seen fit to come up with an expression
that adequately matches what we are going through?
Whether they realize it or not,
they're acknowledging that Jesus' words are being fulfilled.
So rather than become eaten up by anxiety,
we can find hope in these very same facts
if we meditate on the fulfillment of the scriptures.
The scriptures contain the promise of God,
a promise of salvation.
Jehovah God will bring to ruin those ruining the earth.
There is going to be a resurrection.
Death will be no more.
The righteous will possess the earth
and they will live forever on it.
Understanding how the scriptures apply
and how they're fulfilled builds our faith.
The stronger our faith is, the stronger our hope will be,
because faith is the assured,
the assured expectation of what is hoped for.
Do you think often about your hope?
Do you meditate on what it means?
First Thessalonians 5.8 says,
let us put on the hope of salvation as a helmet.
As a helmet protects the head,
so hope protects the mind.
Who of us does not need such a helmet?
Perhaps you have a favorite Kingdom song
or original song from JW.org
that keeps Jehovah's promises shining brightly in your mind.
When you recall that song,
your hope which in turn guards your thinking.
Our hope has to be so real to us
that we can see ourselves in the new world no longer
battling illness and depression,
but waking up each day with better hearing, better vision,
better looks, better outlooks,
no longer mourning the death of those we love,
but rather experiencing the thrill of seeing them come back to life.
What's the longest life span you've ever heard of?
What's the greatest number you can think of?
Now combine the two concepts,
living for...
Well, we could attempt to explain
Googleplexes of galactic millenniums,
but the fact is,
no matter how great a period of time you can possibly fathom,
Jehovah promises us life
that cannot be defined by any number
because it never stops.
That's what the Bible means
by its many references to everlasting life.
Visualize a project
that would take several thousand years to plan and complete.
What kind of forests would you like to grow?
Imagine having millions of years to observe,
analyze and draw new conclusions from Jehovah's activities
and creative works.
What possibilities exist
for an earth filled with loyal,
loving people who cooperate
with the many systems Jehovah has created?
What kind of knowledge would you like to acquire
that is currently out of reach
because of our limited lifespan?
What will it be like
to build on the knowledge of hundreds of generations?
Picture whom you will meet
in the resurrection.
Yes, we think of family members
and faithful ones of old,
but consider what it will be like
to understand how you are related to every person
on this planet all the way back to the beginning.
Imagine all intelligent creation
in heaven and on earth united
as one happy family praising Jehovah.
Is this just wishful thinking?
Happy thoughts?
A dream?
No.
This is hope.
It's meditation on the promise
of God who cannot lie,
meditation on what he has done
to fulfill his promise,
providing the ransom,
and establishing a heavenly kingdom
that will bring mankind back to perfection.
Meditation on Jehovah's personality.
A personality revealed in his creative works
in the Scriptures
and mirrored perfectly by his only begotten Son.
A personality we know,
not only through deep study,
but also through our own experience.
And this leads us
to the second way we feed our hope.
Recall that Romans 154 said that there are two ways
to feed your hope
through the comfort from the Scriptures
but also through our endurance.
How does endurance
feed your hope?
Well, notice what Paul said about this
back at Romans chapter 5,
verses 3 through 5.
Not only that,
but let us rejoice
while in tribulations.
Since we know
that tribulation
produces endurance,
endurance in turn,
an approved condition,
the approved condition in turn hope.
And the hope
does not lead to disappointment.
Now the hope mentioned here
is referring not to our initial hope.
We already had that when we learned the promise
of God contained in the Scriptures.
That's why Paul begins verse 3 with the words
not only that.
Yes, not only
do we rejoice in our initial hope
but we rejoice in our reinforced hope.
Hope made even stronger
through new experiences with Jehovah
as our personal helper.
Now the only way
to understand this process fully
is by going through it.
What's been your experience?
What have you done
when undergoing tribulation?
No doubt you turned to Jehovah
for help.
And then what happened?
He helped you.
True, the trial might not have
disappeared,
but you discovered
that you somehow had the strength
to endure it or
the wisdom to manage it
or practical aid
or encouragement at just the right time
or the courage
to continue bearing witness to the truth.
How did you feel
in that moment?
Did you sense
that Jehovah heard
your prayer?
Did you perceive Jehovah
reassuring you that you
have a relationship
when you go through that
even once
you no longer wonder
whether you could endure a crisis.
You know you can
with Jehovah's help.
That is hope.
Not simply a desire
for something good
but the basis for believing
it will happen.
Many of our dear brothers and sisters
have built up a lifetime
experience.
That is why their hope
hasn't weakened
despite waiting for the new world for decades.
To the contrary,
their hope has been strengthened
through experience.
They know first hand
what Romans 5-3-5 is talking about.
And likely you do as well.
Thank God for hope.
Jehovah is the God who gives hope.
May we never become
shifted away from our hope.
When difficulties arise
feed your hope.
Continue to meditate on the comfort
from the Scriptures.
Keep trusting in Jehovah for strength
and wisdom.
And each day take note
of how He reassures you
that hope.
Your hope is real.
You can read
and listen to so many accounts
right here on JW.org
and the Scriptures
and sisters who are going through
this exact process.
Let's hear from three young people
in Congo, Kinshasa right now.
We began to hear a lot
of noise outside.
When I came out,
I saw volcano fire.
I saw many people running.
I was the only grown-up
at home at the time.
I was very afraid
because it was my first time seeing
such a disaster.
But it became worse
in July 2017.
So we left
and our goods were destroyed.
When we heard that
there would be war at our village,
people were very afraid.
We didn't take many things
and we went to Uganda.
In the morning,
we were informed that our house was
among the houses destroyed by the volcano.
This news affected us very much
because when we left,
we took nothing.
So we lost everything.
When we were running away,
my father said that we must go
to the beach to look for a boat.
He was on a motorbike.
He had an accident
and he was wounded.
That wound made him suffer
for a time.
And that led to his death.
We fled from Bukwa
to Bunya.
We were very afraid
because in Bunya,
we didn't have a field
and we didn't have a house.
So we wondered
how will we live in Bunya?
The way present sisters helped me
strengthened my faith.
That strong faith made me joyful.
When we came back to Congo,
I continued studying
until I got baptized.
Jehovah's organization
did much, very much for us.
First, they took care of us spiritually
and physically.
And second,
they gave us a place to live,
a home.
Because of that,
I am so thankful to Jehovah.
What helped at that period of time
was the thought we find
at Psalm 46, 1 and 2.
That scripture shows
that God is our refuge.
So we have nothing to fear,
even though the world changes.
And even though the mountain
topples to the depths of the sea,
we cannot fear.
And I saw the fulfillment
of that scripture in my life.
Even though I had
difficult circumstances in my life,
I cannot give up.
I will serve Jehovah
for all my life.
Now I'm feeling very well.
I am very happy
to be in Jehovah's organization.
I'm determined to serve Jehovah
for all my days
and to keep my integrity.
I decided to show Jehovah
the same love and happiness
shown to me.
Now I'm a regular pioneer.
Now I'm an auxiliary pioneer.
Now I'm a regular pioneer
and a ministerial servant
in our congregation.
I also work as a remote volunteer
for Bethel.
Esperance and Moes
trusted in Jehovah during a time
of great distress.
And their hope grew stronger
as a result.
Every time we see Jehovah
fulfill a promise,
its strengthens our hope.
In this episode of Our History
and Motion, see how
Theocratic building projects show
evidence of Jehovah's blessing.
To advance true worship
and spread the good news,
build.
Theocratic building projects
strengthen our faith
and feed our hope.
How?
Let's see in this episode of
Our History and Motion.
In ancient times,
Nehemiah was moved to exclaim
the good hand of my God was upon me.
Yes,
against daunting odds,
Jehovah provided what was needed
at the right time
the same has proved true
in modern times.
As the significant year
1914 approached,
the Bible students,
as we were then called,
prepared for an all-out preaching
campaign to publicize
the long hope for fulfillment
of Bible prophecy.
So in 1909,
CT Russell moved world headquarters
from Pennsylvania
to Brooklyn, New York.
The United Buildings,
renamed Bethel,
and the Brooklyn Tabernacle
accommodated the increased workload.
At the time, though,
some thought the preaching work
would end with the birth
of the kingdom in 1914.
Little did they realize
how much work remained to be done.
Opposition to the
kingdom works sparked
by World War I,
peaked with the imprisonment
of the wartime shortages of supplies.
It appeared impossible
to continue operations in Brooklyn.
The Brooklyn Tabernacle was sold.
But efforts to sell
124 Columbia Heights
failed.
Jehovah had plans for it.
The 1920s
saw a renewed zeal
for the ministry,
and consequently a massive increase
in the publication
and distribution of books
in New York.
The decision was made
to print it ourselves.
This required an expanded presence
in Brooklyn.
After outgrowing a small
printer-intermented building,
then outgrowing another,
construction commenced
on a new eight-story factory
just a few blocks away
from the expanded Brooklyn Bethel.
Just over a decade later,
during World War II,
there was no time
as concentration camps
and persecution of our brothers
increased around the world.
Despite that,
the number of kingdom publishers
doubled during the war.
Jehovah knew this was
no time to slow down.
In 1940,
construction began
on a three-story building
at Kingdom Farm
in South Lansing, New York.
But what would it be used for?
In 1943,
the war had made building
materials extremely scarce.
But the brothers had already
finished construction.
Jehovah wanted it used
as a school to train missionaries.
The Watchtower Bible School
of Gillian.
This marked the beginning
of a period of astounding growth.
To keep pace
with the ever-increasing demand
for Bible literature,
it was a factory building.
Eventually, the printer
complex covered five city blocks.
In a 22-year period,
the number of kingdom publishers
worldwide tripled.
In 1971,
a printer was constructed
at Watchtower Farms in upstate New York
and has expanded
several times over the years
to increase its printing capacity.
By the mid-1980s,
from Argentina to Zimbabwe,
we expanded our facilities
at more than 40 branches
around the world.
As stated in the January
1st 1986 Watchtower,
there appears to be no
end to the modern day expansion.
Jehovah's organization
is building
for an eternal future.
Currently,
in Africa,
13 branch facilities
need to be enlarged or renovated.
Over 50 approved
remote translation office projects
are being developed.
And in order to keep up
with publisher growth,
over five major
kingdom hall projects
need to be completed
every single day.
We are producing more videos,
all of which feed our hope.
That means we need more studio space.
Since 2015,
studios have been constructed
in Canada,
Britain,
South Africa,
and most recently,
Australasia,
where the good news,
according to Jesus,
is being produced.
And coming soon,
the new media center
at Ramapo, New York.
We have overwhelming evidence
that Jehovah directs his people's
efforts to build
an advanced kingdom
interests.
But our most important
building effort will always
be our faith.
Have you ever wondered
if you could endure
a severe trial,
such as persecution?
Please listen,
as Brother Mark Sanderson
of the governing body explains
how we can receive peace
from the situation.
Our text this morning
is so encouraging
and so strengthening for us.
It reminds us
of a special type of peace
that we can experience
that's not dependent
on our circumstances
or on what's going on
around us.
How would you define
that peace of God
that's referred to in our text?
Exactly is it?
When our insight volume 2,
page 592,
says this,
the peace of God
that is the calmness
and tranquility that result
from a Christian's
precious relationship
with Jehovah God,
guards his heart
and mental powers
from becoming anxious
about his needs.
Jehovah God provides for his servants
and answers
their prayers.
This puts his heart and mind
at rest.
So now what do you understand
from that definition?
When if you look at Philippians
chapter 4 and look at verses 6
and 7 together,
we understand from those verses
that when we pour out
our heart to Jehovah,
when we supplicate him,
when we beg him
for his help.
And when we do so with a thankful spirit,
always being grateful for the good things
that Jehovah gives us,
being confident
that he will bless us
and he will help us,
we can receive from Jehovah
that wonderful calmness
and tranquility that puts our minds
and hearts to rest.
Now as Paul goes on to say
there in verse 7,
that peace of God
surpasses all understanding.
Now let's look
at some examples.
First of all in the scriptures
where we see individuals
who experience that peace of God.
Now first of all, let's go to Daniel chapter 3.
Daniel chapter 3.
And let's go down here
in verse 16.
And of course, now this is the account
of Shadrach, Misha,
and Abednego.
And when it became evident
that the Shadrach, Misha,
and Abednego would not do this,
they were brought before the king.
Here's what they said.
Look at verse 16.
Oh, Nebuchadnezzar,
we have no need to answer you
in this matter.
If it must be,
our God whom we serve
is able to rescue us
from the burning fiery furnace,
okay, and to rescue us
from your hand.
But even if he does not,
let it be known to you, O king,
that we will not serve your gods,
or worship the image of gold
that you have set up.
Well now the Bible doesn't record
the prayer, the Shadrach, Misha,
and Abednego said.
But when you listen to their words,
do you hear their calm?
Do you hear the tranquility
in their voices?
There's no panic here.
There's no terror.
They speak confidently
and calmly with full trust
in Jehovah.
Well, as you look on to verse 19,
you'll see that Nebuchadnezzar
becomes furious at this.
And he has the furnace heated seven times,
hotter than normal.
Verse 22 says that when the,
that the king's command was so harsh
and the furnace was so hot
that the men
who were to throw a Shadrach,
Misha, Abednego, and they were all killed
because the furnace was so hot.
Brothers, this is,
this is real.
This is real persecution.
This is real fire.
But what happens?
Look at verse 24.
Nebuchadnezzar looks in the fire.
He says, did we not tie up three men
and throw them in the fire?
Yes.
He says, look,
we're talking about free
in the midst of the fire.
And they are unharmed.
And the fourth one looks like a son of the God,
like a son of the gods.
When you talk about
peace of God,
three men walking about
in the fiery furnace,
I wonder what they were saying.
Well, what are you going to do today, Shadrach?
What are we going to do when we get out of this fiery furnace?
You see, not,
not in terror,
of comeness.
That's the peace of God.
What about Jehoshaphat?
In 2 Chronicles chapter 20.
Let's look at this one too.
2 Chronicles chapter 20.
Now you'll see here,
Jehoshaphat and the people of Judah
are surrounded by enemy armies.
Verse 12, look at what he says in his prayer.
We are powerless
before this large crowd
that is coming against us.
We do not know what we should do,
but our eyes are toward you.
Imagine the concern in his heart.
Look at verse 13.
You see, it says that all those of Judah
were standing before Jehovah,
including their little ones,
their wives, and their children.
See, Jehoshaphat was
perhaps a little bit
in a state of anxiety here,
saying Jehovah, we just don't know what to do.
But just like Philippians 4, 6, and 7 says,
Jehoshaphat supplicated Jehovah.
He begged him for his help.
He had a thankful heart,
even recounting the ways that Jehovah
had blessed the nation.
And what happened?
Well, the message came from Jehovah in verse 15.
Do not be afraid or be terrified
because of this large crowd.
For the battle is not yours,
but God's.
And verse 17.
Jehovah told him,
you will not need to fight this battle.
Take your position.
Stand still.
See the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.
Well, there's immediately
a different spirit in Jehoshaphat.
You can tell that he's experienced
the peace of God because
look at verse 20 and 21.
Immediately says to the people,
listen to me, oh Judah,
and you inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Put faith in Jehovah our God
so that you may be able to stand firm.
Put faith in his prophets
and you will be successful.
And then he appointed
men to go out and sayings
and go before the armies of Israel
as they praised Jehovah.
Well, as a result, of course,
the nation was saved.
Jehoshaphat experienced
that calmness,
that tranquility,
that comes from the peace
that only God can give.
Well, the same is true in our modern times.
In the 1975,
your books, a beautiful experience
about our dear brother,
Daniel Sidlik, who served on the governing body.
He was jailed
because of his Christian neutrality
in 1944.
On his first night in prison,
he was lying on top of his bunk
and he was listening
as the steel gates.
He says like rumbling thunder
rolled to a close.
One by one, the sound of those gates
came closer and closer
until his cell gate
quivered and then rolled
slowly shut.
He said suddenly
an overwhelmingly
sickening sensation
swept over me,
which made me feel trapped
without a way out.
Then, just as quickly
followed another sensation
equally overwhelming,
which made me feel great peace and joy,
the kind of peace
that the Bible speaks about,
the peace of God
that surpasses
all understanding.
Isn't that wonderful?
How about this one?
This is a farewell letter
that a young brother wrote
to his parents
during the time of Nazi Germany.
This is what he wrote to them.
It is now nine o'clock
on the day of my trial,
but I must wait till 1130.
I am writing these lines
in a solitary cell of the
state military court.
I have such peace,
which is really hardly believable,
but I have also committed all
to the Lord so that I can calmly wait
for that hour.
Then, at 1230, he continued his letter.
It's all over now.
In view of the fact that I maintained my objection,
the death sentence was decreed.
I listened,
and then after I had spoken the words,
be thou faithful unto death,
and a few other words of our Lord,
it was all over.
But never mind that now.
I have such peace,
such tranquility
that you can't possibly imagine.
Isn't that amazing?
The peace of God
came upon that dear brother
before he was executed.
Well, now in Russia,
our brothers are facing armed
and masked men,
breaking down their doors of their homes,
doing home searches,
breaking up meetings, court cases,
imprisonment.
But there are so many wonderful experiences
of how Jehovah has given the peace of God
to our brothers.
During one search on a brother's home,
the brother began to worry
in feeling anxiety.
He prayed to Jehovah,
I don't know what to do.
But then the investigator
doing the home search
began looking at the magnets
on the brother's refrigerator,
and loudly and expressively
read the inscription on one of the fridge magnets,
do not be anxious
for I am your God.
The brother, right away,
understood what he needed to do.
Well, brothers, what's the point?
Regardless of what may be happening around us,
what persecution we may face,
how challenging the situation may be.
If we supplicate Jehovah
with a thankful heart,
he will give us a precious gift,
the peace of God
that surpasses all understanding.
How refreshing
that if we look to Jehovah
for the way out of a trial,
he'll help us to endure
with inner peace and calm.
Something that could disturb our inner peace
is conflict in a marriage.
How can respect
help a couple reduce conflict
and maintain peace?
Let's see in this episode of
For a Happy Marriage.
Respect.
Sometimes
we work so hard to show it
but receive little in return.
The question is
does it really have to be that way
at home?
We might need to change habits
that we learn growing up
or we may realize
that we need to change our choice of entertainment.
While it may not be easy,
it is possible to cultivate
the mutual respect we once had.
A helpful principle
was stated long ago in the Bible.
Just as you want others to do
to you, do the same way to them.
Husbands especially need to feel respected.
But wives also need to feel valued.
Loved.
And heard by their husbands.
If we start by doing things
that show we honor our mate,
we'll create an atmosphere
where respect can grow.
Always remember to consider
how your words
will affect your mate.
Whether in public
or even in private.
If you must correct a matter,
wait until you're alone.
Use a kind tone
and gentle speech.
Even when you disagree,
keep showing that you value your mate's opinion.
Think about everything your spouse does.
Both the big things
and the little things.
To take good care of your family,
try not to focus
on your mate's flaws.
Commend.
More than you criticize.
Until you're made every day,
something specific you appreciate about them.
Peace is the beautiful result
when both husband and wife
show respect to the person
who deserves it most.
One another.
Here are three questions for you to discuss
that can help to build respect in your marriage.
This is simply a chance
to openly express how each of you feels.
Be ready to listen
and willing to change.
So, if it's convenient,
pause this video now
and really talk.
Did you catch that?
For a happy marriage,
show respect to the person
who truly deserves it,
your mate.
Even if a couple works well together,
children may demand greater teamwork.
Note the way the Macias family is teaching their son
with special needs to build a relationship with Jehovah.
So, when I saw my son
for the first time,
I saw his big eyes open.
I just thought, Jehovah,
what a blessing he's given to me.
I couldn't believe that this was
our boy.
It was overwhelming.
When I was told
that Jaden is autistic,
I didn't know what it was.
So, I immediately started
doing my homework.
I need to know what it is
so I can succeed
because I love this boy
and I don't want to fail him.
Being a new mom,
I started doing the research
and talking to my pediatrician.
Every day was like a mystery
and you need that time to process together
and we're like,
it was key to talk to Jehovah
because this can be overwhelming,
just trying to understand
the challenges that you have
to prepare yourself for
to endure as an advocate
for your child.
I think being present
in our case has been very important
with Jaden
because there's just glimpses
of his personality
that you're able to capture
and you might not see it again.
So, those are the things
that drive us.
We've been fortunate
enough to have such a
strong set of friends
they're the ones that call us
and say,
are you doing?
You know, outside
of Jaden,
how are you doing?
What's keeping you going?
You know, those are
the things that really
stay with us
and help us just keep moving
along and show you
along.
Jaden's vocabulary is
limited. If he's angry,
we ask him, are you feeling
angry? Yes, angry.
Well, why?
I don't know.
Okay. Well, what happened?
I'll take a picture
with my phone. You see?
You don't look happy.
You know?
And then I'll find a picture
with him happy. I'm like,
that's Jaden right there
and then we work at it.
But I think it helps him to see it
because he sees himself
and with Jaden
reading words, writing words
is not really the thing
that's going to cement
anything into his heart or brain.
So, most of it is going to be
drawn or acted out.
And he loves the Sophia
and Kayla videos. When that came,
we were just so grateful to Jehovah
because it really felt like
it was made for us.
We had the illustrated
Bible stories. It had dialogue,
an action tile. I would act
those out with him.
When we prepare for assembly,
we sing the songs
throughout the whole program
so that he feels that he has
an idea of what's coming.
And we realized we need to move
to the English congregation
so that Jaden could thrive.
It's been a fun ride
with getting Jaden to comment
at meetings, telling the friends,
hey, you know, he wants to come
but it's going to be
maybe something you don't understand.
And they were so good about it.
That constant support
was enough for him to want to do it on his own.
So, he knows that we have to share our faith.
He knows that others don't have our hope.
So, that means we're publishers to get that done.
So, we help them to get to that place.
He's going to talk about his faith.
He's going to share it the way he can.
He wants to get baptized.
Yeah, I think that, you know,
when we make it to the new world,
he's going to know everything
that's been done to get us there
and to be there as a family.
I score, sir. So many.
I think of
us being over hill for some reason.
And think of him being between us
because that's how he's kind of the dynamic.
Him holding us and saying we did it.
We did it together.
Jehovah is giving us the best gift,
which is our son, Jaden.
You'll be glad to know
that shortly after this video was filmed,
Jaden symbolized his dedication
by water baptism.
Have you ever had a doubt
that weakened your faith?
Do you struggle to believe
that God loves you?
This month's music video
encourages us to face those doubts
with Jehovah's help.
He's a true
that this is the path
I should choose.
I asked myself
I had a mind full of questions
and not to mention
this world didn't help
but I made the time
to prove I really have the truth
when I have to deal
with what distorts my view.
This is what I do.
My hope is guaranteed.
Jehovah always gives us
just what we need.
True hope is built
on the promises of a God
who simply cannot lie.
Whether we are young or old,
our hope can stabilize us
through both man-made conflict
or natural disasters.
Theocratic building projects
are tangible evidence
that the God of hope is speeding
up the global preaching work
before the end comes.
And when we apply Bible principles
in our marriage,
our hope is strengthened
as we see how Jehovah's word promotes peace
in our home.
Our postcard this month
is from a country that's been called
of the volcanoes,
El Salvador.
Of its 20 youngest volcanoes,
some are still active.
The picturesque lake
Quatapeque was formed
when a group of volcanoes collapsed,
allowing rainwater to fill the crater.
Despite its mountainous terrain,
El Salvador is known
for its agriculture,
especially coffee.
The fertile volcanic soil
produces a highly sought-after coffee
in its sweetness,
notes of chocolate
and caramel
and gentle acidity.
El Salvador is
Central America's smallest country
and also its most densely populated.
Jehovah's Witnesses
have been active in the country
since the first missionaries
arrived in 1945.
Those intrepid missionaries
faced the daunting task
of declaring the good news
before and people are kind
and industrious, very hospitable
and ready to talk about the Bible.
Those first seeds
of kingdom truth grew rapidly
and in 1972,
Jehovah's Witnesses gained
legal recognition.
Today, the more than
37,000 publishers
conduct almost 20,000 Bible studies.
They preach in Spanish,
Salvador in sign language
and Mandarin Chinese
and they declare the good news
to inmates in 20 different prisons.
Nearly one in seven publishers
serves as a pioneer.
This past service year saw
more than a 20% increase
in total hours spent preaching.
The brothers enjoy harbor witnessing
in the coastal town of
Acahulta.
The El Boquern congregation
is located in the coffee-growing region
of El Progreso la Libertad.
After a delicious cup
in the morning,
the brothers walk from house to house
and farm to farm.
They conduct on average 50 Bible studies
and this past year,
174 attended the memorial.
The 66 publishers
of the El Boquern congregation
send their warm Christian love
and affection.
From the world headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses,
W Broadcasting.